Soft Inky Cat

medium

# Bridges that are no longer whitelisted(malicious or compromised) can still burn tokens from user accounts

## Summary
The `AlchemicTokenV2Base` contract allows bridges that are no longer whitelisted to burn tokens from user accounts without verifying their current whitelist status.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `AlchemicTokenV2Base` contract assumes that whitelisted bridges are trusted entities. 

The protocol documentation states that 

```comment
Whitelist - allows contracts to mint the alAsset, including Alchemist contracts and bridges. It is assumed the Alchemist is safe/trusted, as all security functions to ensure backed minting of alAssets are covered by the Alchemist itself (which is already audited and live, and not in scope of this audit). Bridges are assumed safe/trusted, as security checks for minting/burning are done by the bridge itself, which is not in the scope of this audit.
```
In the event a bridge becomes malicious or compromised, the admin has the ability to revoke its whitelisted status to prevent further minting. Despite this, the contract does not prevent these now un-whitelisted bridges from burning tokens using their remaining allowance.

Please see the code.

```solidity
  function burn(address account, uint256 amount) external {
    if (msg.sender != account) {
      uint256 newAllowance = allowance(account, msg.sender) - amount;
      _approve(account, msg.sender, newAllowance);
    }

    // If bridge is registered check limits and update accordingly.
    if (xBridges[msg.sender].burnerParams.maxLimit > 0) {
      uint256 currentLimit = burningCurrentLimitOf(msg.sender);
      if (amount > currentLimit) revert IXERC20.IXERC20_NotHighEnoughLimits();
      _useBurnerLimits(msg.sender, amount);
    }

    _burn(account, amount);
  }
```
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol#L190C1-L204C4

The above code does not verify the current whitelist status of the `bridge` before allowing a burn operation. Consequently, bridges that have been removed from the whitelist could still potentially utilize their existing allowance to carry out token burns.

## Impact
If a bridge is removed from the whitelist but still has an allowance from user accounts, it can misuse this allowance to burn tokens, potentially leading to unauthorized burns and loss of user funds.

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol#L190C1-L204C4

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
While the admin has the capability to decrease the burning limit using the `setLimits` function, setting this limit to zero is not possible due to the contract's design. The minimum limit that can be set is 1 wei. However, this does not completely safeguard user funds since it does not entirely prevent burning. 

It is recommended to enhance the contract with a feature that allows the admin to pause the burn functionality for any bridges that are no longer whitelisted or have been deemed malicious.
