Rich Crimson Rhino

medium

# M-1 Audit Finding: Lack of Protection Against Sequencer Downtime

## Context:

During our audit process, a noteworthy point of discussion arose concerning the operational assumptions regarding Layer 2 (L2) Sequencer reliability within the codebase intended for deployment on an L2 network. The question posed to the development team inquired about the protocol's expected behavior in the event of Sequencer issues, including potential downtime or misconduct. The response from the development team suggested an operational assumption that the Sequencer would neither misbehave nor go offline. 

While this assumption can streamline the development process and reduce complexity in handling edge cases related to Sequencer reliability, it introduces a non-trivial risk that merits attention. Layer 2 solutions, despite their advancements and contributions to scalability and efficiency, inherently possess points of failure that include, but are not limited to, Sequencer downtime or errors. Assuming Sequencer infallibility may lead to unmitigated risks should these failures occur, affecting transaction processing, data integrity, and overall system resilience.

## Summary

The `OptimismRewardCollector:getExpectedExchange` function relies on fresh and accurate data from Chainlink Oracles for converting reward tokens into an expected exchange rate. The function presently employs a basic time-based mechanism (`updateTime < block.timestamp - 1200 seconds`) to ensure the data's freshness. However, this mechanism does not account for periods when the Sequencer is down. After the Sequencer is back online, it processes transactions in the order they arrived. There is a potential issue where transactions executed immediately after the Sequencer resumes may still perceive the Sequencer as down due to the timing of data updates from external oracles. Consequently, such transactions might prematurely revert or not execute based on stale data, affecting the smart contract's reliability and causing possible financial implications.

## Vulnerability Detail

Stale data vulnerability occurs when a smart contract operates on or makes decisions based on outdated or old information, without receiving the most recent updates. This can happen in decentralized applications (dApps) that rely on external data sources, such as price feeds or state changes from other contracts, especially when these data sources experience delays, downtime, or fail to push updates in a timely manner.

https://docs.chain.link/data-feeds/l2-sequencer-feeds#available-networks

## Impact

- **Operational Disruption**: Immediately following Sequencer downtime, operations reliant on up-to-date Oracle data might unnecessarily revert or operate on stale data.
- **Financial Risk**: Decisions made on stale or incorrect data may lead to suboptimal financial outcomes for both the protocol and its users.
- **User Experience**: A lack of appropriate handling mechanisms for Sequencer downtime events may erode user trust in the platform's resilience and reliability.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L91

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To address the identified risks associated with Sequencer reliability, and ensure the protocol's resilience and data integrity during Sequencer downtime or catching up phases, we recommend integrating a Sequencer status check mechanism directly into your smart contracts. This approach involves leveraging Chainlink's Sequencer Uptime Feeds to determine the Sequencer's current status and implement logic that guards against operations during periods of instability.

#### Proposed Implementation:

1. **Integration of Sequencer Uptime Feed**: Incorporate the Sequencer Uptime Feed into your contracts to monitor the status of the Sequencer in real-time. Use the Chainlink Aggregator interface for seamless integration.

2. **Grace Period Post-Downtime**: Implement a grace period following the resumption of Sequencer operations to ensure that your smart contracts only proceed with transactions once the Sequencer is fully stable and all pending transactions have been processed.

The suggested code snippet below demonstrates how to integrate Sequencer Uptime Checks into your smart contract:

```solidity
// SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
pragma solidity ^0.8.7;

import "@chainlink/contracts/src/v0.8/interfaces/AggregatorV2V3Interface.sol";

contract SequencerStatusChecker {
    AggregatorV2V3Interface internal sequencerUptimeFeed;
    uint256 private constant SEQUENCER_GRACE_PERIOD = 3600; // 1 hour

    error SequencerIsDown();
    error InGracePeriod();

    // Constructor to set the uptime feed address
    constructor(address _uptimeFeedAddress) {
        sequencerUptimeFeed = AggregatorV2V3Interface(_uptimeFeedAddress);
    }

    // Function to check the sequencer's status
    function isSequencerActive() public view returns (bool) {
        (
            ,
            int256 status,
            uint256 startedAt,
            ,
            
        ) = sequencerUptimeFeed.latestRoundData();

        // Sequencer status: 0 = up, 1 = down
        if (status == 1) {
            revert SequencerIsDown();
        }

        // Check if the current time is within the grace period after Sequencer is back
        if (block.timestamp - startedAt <= SEQUENCER_GRACE_PERIOD) {
            revert InGracePeriod();
        }

        return true;
    }
}
```