Rapid Cloth Swan

high

# Maximum allowable slippage can be exceeded

## Summary

RewardRouter has slippage protection that aims to protect funds from losses caused by swap operations performed in different pools. Due to incorrect implementation, the maximum allowed percentage slippage can be exceeded, resulting in a larger loss than expected.

## Vulnerability Detail

To determine the expected value of OP tokens to be exchanged, the getExpectedExchange() function is used. It fetches OP/USD and ETH/USD prices from Chainlink and calculates the total value of OP tokens in USD or ETH based on these prices. From the resulting value is then subtracted the slippage percentage (5% by default) to get the minimum amount that needs to be received for the swap operation to be successful. The problem is that at the end of the swap operation, alUSD or alETH is received, while the minimum expected amount is in USD or ETH, respectively. The prices of alUSD/USD and alETH/USD are lower than those of USDC/USD and ETH/USD, which means that the actual allowable slippage will be significantly higher than the one set in RewardRouter.

At the time of writing:

- alUSD/USD = $0.98
- alUSD/USDC = $0.97 (velodrume)
- alETH/USD = $2832
- ETH/USD = $3091

The difference between the price of alETH and ETH is around 9%, and the difference between alUSD and USD is around 2%. Therefore, for alETH, minimumAmountOut will be 14% lower than the actual value of OP tokens measured in alETH. This means that a malicious user can gain 14% of the value through an MEV attack on the used pools instead of only 5%. The percentage for alUSD would be 7% accordingly.

Example:

- Let's say the price of OP is $2 and we have 50 OP tokens worth $100 USD.
- getExpectedExchange() will return 50 * 2 / 3091 = ~0.03235, a value in ETH.
- minimumAmountOut = ~0.03235 * 0.95 = ~0.03073
- The actual value of 50 OP in alETH is 100 / 2832 = 0.03531
- ~0.03531 / 0.03073 = ~1.14906 which is around a 14% difference that can be extracted by the attacker at the expense of the protocol.

With bigger price differences, the profit for the exploiter will be bigger. In principle, this problem can be mitigated to some extent by frequently changing the slippage parameter depending on the price. However, since there is one variable and more than one possible token, this is not possible. Requirement for the attack is to execute the transaction before the gelato keeper which is not hard.

## Impact

Loss of funds for the protocol (its users)

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L91-L143

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Use the real price of alETH and alUSD when calculate minimumAmountOut  instead of the price of ETH and USD.
