Bouncy Gingerbread Lion

high

# `flashloan` allows for on-behalf flashloaning which can be used to drain unsuspecting receivers through fees

## Summary
The flashloan function allows anyone to execute a flashloan on behalf of any receiver without checking for approval, which can be abused by malicious users to drain the victim's balance, through fees.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `flashLoan` function allows the caller to specify the receiver address. The tokens are then minted to receiver address and burnt from the address plus a fee after the callback. This means that through each flash loan, an malicious user can slowly drain the balance of the receiver by forcefully making him pay the fees because as the receiver can be specified by the user without any validation.

```solidity
  function flashLoan(
    IERC3156FlashBorrower receiver,
    address token,
    uint256 amount,
    bytes calldata data
  ) external override nonReentrant returns (bool) {
    if (token != address(this)) {
      revert IllegalArgument();
    }

    if (amount > maxFlashLoan(token)) {
      revert IllegalArgument();
    }

    uint256 fee = flashFee(token, amount);

    _mint(address(receiver), amount);

    if (receiver.onFlashLoan(msg.sender, token, amount, fee, data) != CALLBACK_SUCCESS) {
      revert IllegalState();
    }

    _burn(address(receiver), amount + fee); // Will throw error if not enough to burn //@note no approval check.

    return true;
  }
```

Seeing that the `amount + fee` is burned directly from the receiver without any approval check, this call will go through essentially griefing the receiver.

***
PS: By default there's no fee. But, there is a `setFlashFee` function in the contract indicating that sometime in the future, fees can be set.
While sherlock has a rule against future issue speculation, the readme specifies.
>Should potential issues, like broken assumptions about function behavior, be reported if they could pose risks in future integrations, even if they might not be an issue in the context of the scope? If yes, can you elaborate on properties/invariants that should hold?
These issues should be reported for xalAssets. They need not be reported for the reward router/collector contracts.

Hence, admin setting a fee opens up users to this attack vector.
***

## Impact
Anyone can call the flashloan function, passing a valid receiver's address and continuosly drain the victim's account through fees, which can lead to loss of funds.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol#L247-L272
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol#L112-L118

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
There are two ways this can be fixed.

1. Include a check for `msg.sender` == `receiver`, this allows only users to flashloan for themselves.
```solidity
        require(
            msg.sender = receiver,
            "Unauthorized"
        );
```

2. Include an approval check for msg.sender by switiching from the `_burn` to the `burn` function.

```solidity
        burn(address(receiver), amount + fee);
```