Harsh Sable Sparrow

medium

# `RewardRouter::distributeRewards` will not work as expected because of `block.number`

## Summary

The `RewardRouter::distributeRewards` function uses `block.number` to calculate the time elapsed (in terms of blocks) since the last reward distribution. This method is susceptible to manipulation on the Optimism blockchain, where each transaction is it's own block.


## Vulnerability Detail
On Optimism, the `block.number` is not a reliable source of timing information and the time between each block is also different from Ethereum. This is because each transaction on L2 is placed in a separate block and blocks are not produce at a constant rate.
This can allow users to artificially increase the perceived time elapsed by padding multiple tiny transactions to rapidly inflate the block count and manipulate the reward calculation.

Similar issue : https://solodit.xyz/issues/m-04-anchortime-will-not-work-properly-on-optimism-due-to-use-of-blocknumber-code4rena-frankencoin-frankencoin-git


## Impact
This vulnerability can lead to an unfair advantage where users with the capacity to perform many transactions can claim more rewards faster than intended.
This can also lead to premature depletion of reward pools.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/RewardRouter.sol#L40-L43

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

- Replace `block.number` with `block.timestamp` to measure the time based on seconds rather than block count, providing a more stable and less manipulable metric.
