Decent Mulberry Poodle

medium

# Lack of Validation on Token Parameter in claimAndDonateRewards Function

## Summary

In the [claimAndDonateRewards](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L57) function, the token parameter used in the `IAlchemistV2.donate` call is not validated. This could lead to misuse, particularly if the token address passed does not correspond to any supported or legitimate token in the system.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `claimAndDonateRewards` function takes an externally provided token address and uses it in a `donate` call without verifying its legitimacy or presence in the system's recognized token list. This lack of validation could result in donations being made in a token that the system does not expect or support, possibly causing disruptions or inefficiencies, especially if the token is not compatible with the system's expected interfaces or operations.

## Impact

Consider a scenario where a user calls the `claimAndDonateRewards` function with a token parameter pointing to a maliciously crafted or incompatible ERC-20 token. This could lead to several scenarios:

- The contract might attempt to interact with an incompatible token interface, leading to failed transactions or unexpected reverts.
- Incorrect token handling could lead to financial losses, either through misdirected funds or through exploitation of contract vulnerabilities.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L86

```solidity
        IAlchemistV2(alchemist).donate(token, debtReturned);
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Implement a mechanism to maintain a list of approved tokens. The `claimAndDonateRewards` function should include a check to ensure that the token parameter is in this whitelist before proceeding with the donation.
