Powerful Tan Dolphin

medium

# In VeldromeSwap the `OptimismRewardCollector` should be forced to receive `minimumAmountOut` due to `block.timestamp` as deadline

## Summary
The `claimAndDonateRewards` function will convert the `RewardToken` to `debtToken` by using `VelodromeSwapRouter` to swap token. However it pass `block.timestamp` as deadline to `VelodromeSwapRouter` for swapping.

## Vulnerability Detail
The `OptimismRewardCollector:claimAndDonateRewards` get called when the rewards claim and donate to `alchemist`. The contract will convert first the `rewardToken` into `debtToken` and then calls the `donate` function. the focus here is on the `swapping` of tokens.
For `swapping` the contract calls the `swapExactTokensForTokens` as follows:
```solidity
            IVelodromeSwapRouter(swapRouter).swapExactTokensForTokens(amountRewardToken, minimumAmountOut, routes, address(this), block.timestamp);
```
As it can be seen from the above code that  `block.timestamp` is passed as deadline . which means that whenever the validator  decides to include the txn in a block. The validator can trick/force the `OptimismRewardCollector` to receive the `minAmountOut` provided. 
The validator only need to hold the transaction for a time where the user will only receive the `minAmountOut` provided.  

## Impact
The validator can force user to only receive the `minAmountOut` provided after a swap. 

## Code Snippet
[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L71](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L71)
[https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L78](https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L78)
## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Use deadline argument to `claimAndDonateRewards`.
