Elegant Hazelnut Griffin

medium

# The `debtToken` is overpriced in `getExpectedExchange`

## Summary

`getExpectedExchange` calculates the amount of `debtToken` that should be received in exchange for `OptimismRewardCollector`'s `rewardToken` balance. It is used in order to calculate the `minimumAmountOut` in `IVelodromeSwapRouter(swapRouter).swapExactTokensForTokens`. The issue is that the value of `getExpectedExchange` will most often be overpriced, causing `claimAndDonateRewards` to fail. 

## Vulnerability Detail

`claimAndDonateRewards` swaps the contract's `rewardToken` balance for `debtToken` through Velodrome's `swapExactTokensForTokens`. `swapExactTokensForTokens` requires a `minimumAmountOut` parameter to be set, which indicates the minimum amount of `debtToken` that should be received when swapping `rewardToken`. The `minimumAmountOut` is gathered through the `getExpectedExchange` function.

`getExpectedExchange` uses Chainlink's data feeds to get the exchange between the reward token and the debt token. There are two possible debt tokens: `alUsdOptimism` and `alEthOptimism`. The issue is that it calculates the exchange rate between the reward token and USD/ETH instead of between the reward token and alUSD/alETH. alUSD and alETH are not pegged perfectly to USD and ETH. For example, currently, alETH is 0.91 of the price of ETH and alUSD is 0.96 of the price of USD.

Therefore, `getExpectedExchange` will return an overpriced expected exchange.
 
## Impact

This is likely to cause `claimAndDonateRewards` to revert, as `minimumAmountOut` parameter will often be too high for the debt token received from the swap.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L133-L139
```solidity
if (debtToken == alUsdOptimism) {
        expectedExchange = totalToSwap * uint(opToUsd) / 1e8;
} else if (debtToken == alEthOptimism) {
        expectedExchange = totalToSwap * uint(uint(opToUsd)) / uint(ethToUsd);
} else {
        revert IllegalState("Invalid debt token");
}
```

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

A long term solution would be implementing custom price oracles for alUSD and alETH.
