Atomic Tortilla Guppy

medium

# the function initialize() can become permanently inaccessible

## Summary

The `initialize` function is declared as `external` which means it can only be called from outside the contract. Moreover, it utilizes the `initializer` modifier which makes sure it can only be invoked once. This decision protects against an attack type known as reentrancy, effectively blocking an adversary from exploiting the contract by repeatedly calling the `initialize` function.

## Vulnerability Detail

However, the issue arises when this function incorrectly initializes due to unforeseen circumstances, such as out-of-gas errors, wrong input parameters, or exceptions thrown in `__CrossChainCanonicalBase_init` or `__AlchemicTokenV2Base_init`. In these cases, the `initialize` function enters an unrecoverable state due to the single-use nature of the `initializer` modifier. 

## Impact

Because of this, the functionality provided by initialization may become permanently inaccessible.


## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/CrossChainCanonicalAlchemicTokenV2.sol#L12-L26

```solidity
function initialize(
    string memory name,
    string memory symbol,
    address[] memory _bridgeTokens,
    uint256[] memory _mintCeilings
) external initializer {
    __CrossChainCanonicalBase_init(
        name,
        symbol,
        msg.sender,
        _bridgeTokens,
        _mintCeilings
    );
    __AlchemicTokenV2Base_init();
}
```


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

To solve this issue, consider introducing a recovery or retry mechanism that allows for re-attempting initialization, especially in key scenarios where the full process is critical. 

Alternatively, instead of forcefully preventing multiple initializations, you should design the initialization function to be idempotent. This way, even if it's called multiple times, it will not cause any unintended side effects or vulnerabilities - it should always leave the contract in the correct and expected state.

Outside of dealing with these failed cases, it's crucial to thoroughly test the `initialize` function with a variety of input scenarios to ensure it does not fail during actual use.

