Warm Ruby Robin

medium

# Issues related to swap functions

## Summary
There are some problems associated with using the swap functions claimAndDonateRewards function in OptimismRewardCollector. 

## Vulnerability Detail
1. The minimumAmountOut is always set to 95%. The contest readme acknowledges that due to the nature of public keeper transactions, MEV sandwich attacks could result in the maximum slippage being realized. But, there is another issue with hardcoded/fixed slippage. Because hardcoded/fixed slippage will cause swap transactions to revert during periods of extremely high volatility when slippage is unavoidable. More on this - https://dacian.me/defi-slippage-attacks#heading-hard-coded-slippage-may-freeze-user-funds

Although there is a function to set slippage. The user has to first adjust the slippage and then swap tokens. This is not ideal as conditions can always change from one transaction to another. Maybe more slippage is needed even after adjusting slippage. Hence slippage should be adjusted in the same transaction.

2. block.timestamp should not be used as transaction deadline, especially on the ethereum mainnet. Protocols shouldn't set the deadline to block.timestamp as a validator can hold the transaction and the block it is eventually put into will be block.timestamp, so this offers no protection. Protocols should allow users interacting with AMMs to set expiration deadlines. More on this - https://dacian.me/defi-slippage-attacks#heading-no-expiration-deadline

## Impact
Transactions can revert while swapping tokens

## Code Snippet
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L71
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L78

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation
Have the ability to set different slippage for each transaction. Also, allow users to set a dealing for the transaction.
