Atomic Tortilla Guppy

medium

# Role-based Access Control Vulnerability in __AlchemicTokenV2Base_init()

## Summary

Role-Based Access Control(RBAC) is a method of regulating access to the smart contract and its functions based on the roles of the individual users. 
In the contract AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol, the use of `AccessControlUpgradeable.sol` is evident for RBAC. It defines the roles of `Admin` and `Sentinel`. 

## Vulnerability Detail

While this helps in controlling the execution of certain privileged functions (like minting new tokens, setting whitelist etc.) to specific users or roles, there are potential risks if not implemented and managed correctly.

For example, one major risk is that in the initial implementation, both the `Admin` and `Sentinel` roles are assigned to the contract's deployer/address. 

## Impact

This can create a single point of failure risk. If the private key to the deployer address is compromised, it can become a serious security issue.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/AlchemicTokenV2Base.sol#L76C12-L81

In the `__AlchemicTokenV2Base_init()` function, the roles are set as follows:

```solidity
function __AlchemicTokenV2Base_init() internal {
  _setupRole(ADMIN_ROLE, msg.sender);
  _setupRole(SENTINEL_ROLE, msg.sender);
  _setRoleAdmin(SENTINEL_ROLE, ADMIN_ROLE);
  _setRoleAdmin(ADMIN_ROLE, ADMIN_ROLE);
}
```
As can be seen, both `ADMIN` and `SENTINEL` roles are assigned to the contract deployer (`msg.sender`).


## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Ensure to implement a robust system for managing roles. Separate the roles and their rights, possibly distributing the roles among different trusted entities to minimize the risks. 
Furthermore, ensure that the roles are transferred from the contract deployer to more secure, long-term addresses managed by multiple individuals. 
Keep the control of critical functions distributed and ensure you have a plan or system for secure key management and revocation to limit the effect of individual keys getting compromised. 
Consider the use of multi-signature wallets for highly privileged roles.
