Melodic Cornflower Shetland

medium

# Inability to Exchange Old Tokens for Canonical Due to Dead Shares in TotalMinted

## Summary
In `CrossChainCanonicalBase:exchangeOldForCanonical` function, users can swap old tokens for canonical ones up to a defined `mintCeiling`. However, even when the total number of canonical tokens is below this ceiling, there are scenarios where users cannot perform the exchange due to the presence of dead shares in `totalMinted`.

## Vulnerability Detail

The `totalMinted[token]` mapping tracks the number of old tokens that have been exchanged for canonical tokens, ensuring the total does not exceed the `mintCeiling[token]` set by the owner.

- exchangeOldForCanonical:
```solidity=92
=> uint256 total = tokenAmount + totalMinted[bridgeTokenAddress];
=> if (total > mintCeiling[bridgeTokenAddress]) {
    revert IllegalState("Exceeds mint ceiling");
}
totalMinted[bridgeTokenAddress] = total;

canonicalTokensOut = tokenAmount;
if (!_isFeeExempt(msg.sender)) {
=>    canonicalTokensOut -= ((canonicalTokensOut * swapFees[bridgeTokenAddress][0]) / FEE_PRECISION);
}

// Mint canonical tokens and give it to the sender
=> super._mint(msg.sender, canonicalTokensOut);

```

- The sum of the token amount submitted by the user and the tokens already minted (totalMinted) is compared to the mintCeiling. If this sum exceeds the ceiling, the transaction is reverted.
- The totalMinted value is updated with the pre-fee amount, which is higher than what is actually minted after fees are deducted.

- exchangeCanonicalForOld:
```solidity=132
super._burn(msg.sender, tokenAmount);

// Handle the fee, if applicable
bridgeTokensOut = tokenAmount;
if (!_isFeeExempt(msg.sender)) {
    bridgeTokensOut -= ((bridgeTokensOut * swapFees[bridgeTokenAddress][1]) / FEE_PRECISION);
}

// Update mint count
=> totalMinted[bridgeTokenAddress] -= tokenAmount;

```

- The total minted is decreased by the full amount being burned, which does not consider potential fees deducted during minting. This creates a mismatch in the recorded totalMinted because the amount deducted may be less than the amount added when fees were initially ignored.


## Proof Of Concept

- Imagine a scenario where fees for converting from old to canonical are 1%, and there are no fees for the reverse conversion:

1. Alice swaps 100 old tokens, updating `totalMinted` to 100.
2. Only 99 canonical tokens are minted after fees.
3. Later, Alice swaps back to old tokens, burning all 99 canonical tokens, leading `totalMinted` to incorrectly reflect a remainder of 1 token. where no totalSupply of canonicalTokens are actually 0.
4. This discrepancy accumulates over multiple transactions, leading to "dead shares" in the system that cannot be corrected by the owner. This error could prevent further legitimate transactions if `totalMinted` inaccurately suggests the mintCeiling has been reached.
    
## Impact

This issue can result in a denial of service, as users may be unable to swap old tokens for canonical ones when `totalMinted` inaccurately reflects the actual number of tokens in circulation. The owner might need to continually adjust the `mintCeiling` to compensate for these inaccuracies.

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/CrossChainCanonicalBase.sol#L92-L119

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/32e4902f77b05ea856cf52617c55c3450507281c/v2-foundry/src/CrossChainCanonicalBase.sol#L122-L145

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

add to the totalMinted only what is minted after fees are accounted for

```diff=106
-totalMinted[bridgeTokenAddress] = total;

// Pull in the old tokens
TokenUtils.safeTransferFrom(bridgeTokenAddress, msg.sender, address(this), tokenAmount);

// Handle the fee, if applicable
canonicalTokensOut = tokenAmount;
if (!_isFeeExempt(msg.sender)) {
    canonicalTokensOut -= ((canonicalTokensOut * swapFees[bridgeTokenAddress][0]) / FEE_PRECISION);
    }
+totalMinted[bridgeTokenAddress] = canonicalTokensOut;
```