Harsh Sable Sparrow

medium

# Missing deadline check allow pending transactions to be maliciously executed on Mainnet

## Summary

`OptimismRewardCollector::claimAndDonateRewards` function does not allow users to submit a deadline for their actions which execute swaps on Velodrome. Since the contract `OptimismRewardCollector` is also intended to be deployed on Mainnet:
>Reward router/collector
The reward router/collector is only currently intended to be deployed on Optimism, Arbitrum, and Ethereum.

This missing feature enables pending transactions to be maliciously executed at a later point.

## Vulnerability Detail

Similar to Uniswap router, the velodrome router has a function that ensures that the deadline for the swap execution has not passed. 

https://github.com/velodrome-finance/contracts/blob/888617832644f073f331d6576da3f4bd987be982/contracts/Router.sol#L41-L42

The function `claimAndDonateRewards` forces this deadline to be `block.timestamp` making it prone to exploitation by miners.

```js
            IVelodromeSwapRouter(swapRouter).swapExactTokensForTokens(
                amountRewardToken, minimumAmountOut, routes, address(this), block.timestamp
            );
``` 


While both swaps have a minimum output parameter to control slippage, this doesn't offer protection against when the transaction is actually executed. If the price of the underlying assets drops while the transaction is pending, then the minimum output can still be fulfilled, but the user will get a bad rate due to the stale price. The outdated slippage value now allows for a high slippage trade in detriment of the keeper and the users who receive the rewards.

## Impact

Without an expiration deadline, a malicious miner/validator can hold a transaction until they favor it or they can make a profit. Users will claim less rewards. 

## Code Snippet

https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L71
https://github.com/sherlock-audit/2024-04-alchemix/blob/main/v2-foundry/src/utils/collectors/OptimismRewardCollector.sol#L78

## Tool used

Manual Review

## Recommendation

Set the deadline as a parameter for the function `claimAndDonateRewards`.
